Add Xcsync docs (#2406)
dotnet/docs-maui: docs/macios/xcsync.md

---

> title: Xcode Sync

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Xcode sync
```

> description: Xcsync is designed to provide .NET developers with improved support for editing Apple specific files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to use Xcsync, to provide .NET developers with improved support for editing Apple specific files.
```

author: haritha-mohan
ms.author: harithamohan
ms.date: 08/05/2024
monikerRange: ">=net-maui-9.0"
---

> # Xcode Sync (Xcsync)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Xcode sync (xcsync)
```

> Xcode Sync (Xcsync) is a tool that enables developers to leverage Xcode for managing Apple specific files with .NET projects. The tool generates a temporary Xcode project from a .NET project and synchronizes changes to the Xcode files back to the .NET project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Xcode sync (xcsync) is a tool that enables developers to leverage Xcode for managing Apple specific files with .NET projects. The tool generates a temporary Xcode project from a .NET project and synchronizes changes to the Xcode files back to the .NET project.
```

Supported file types include:

> - Asset Catalog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Asset catalog
```

- Plist
- Storyboard
- Xib

> The tool has 2 commands: `generate` and `sync`. Use `generate` to create an Xcode project from a .NET project and `sync` to bring changes in the Xcode project back to the .NET project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tool has two commands: `generate` and `sync`. Use `generate` to create an Xcode project from a .NET project and `sync` to bring changes in the Xcode project back to the .NET project.
```

## Synopsis

> 

Reviewer: Really needs a sentence under this heading, explaining what the examples are for e.g. "The following examples show the syntax for the `generate` and `sync` commands."

### xcsync-generate

```dotnetcli

> dotnet build /t:xcsync-generate
>     /p:xcSyncProjectFile=<PROJECT>
>     /p:xcSyncXcodeFolder=<TARGET_XCODE_DIRECTORY>
>     /p:xcSyncTargetFrameworkMoniker=<FRAMEWORK>
>     /p:xcSyncVerbosity=<LEVEL>

Reviewer 2: This isn't about the docs, but the tool itself: `dotnet build` needs a project to actually build, which I believe is the same as `xcSyncProjectFile`, so doesn't that make `xcSyncProjectFile` redundant?

So:

```suggestion
dotnet build /t:xcsync-generate <PROJECT>
    /p:xcSyncXcodeFolder=<TARGET_XCODE_DIRECTORY>
    /p:xcSyncTargetFrameworkMoniker=<FRAMEWORK>
    /p:xcSyncVerbosity=<LEVEL>
```

And then we can just default `xcSyncProjectFile=$(MSBuildProjectFullPath)` in the `xcsync-generate`/`xcsync-sync` targets.

Author: yea we looked into this but dotnet build technically accepts either a project or solution parameter, but if a solution path is passed to xcsync it will break..so to avoid any potential confusion here at least for the initial preview we decided to explicitly specify. but this is definitely something we can refactor prior to the next release

Reviewer 2: One point is that if you don't pass a project to `dotnet build`, it must exist in the current directory, and there can't be any other project files in that directory. This isn't entirely obvious from the help here (I could certainly see myself trying to run `dotnet build ...` from my HOME directory by accident, and that won't work - I find the problem and solution to be somewhat obvious, but that doesn't mean other people won't scratch their heads a bit).

Author: yea fair enough, that's a good point it would be good to have better clarity here. I'll keep that in mind when updating docs for RC.

```

### xcsync-sync

```dotnetcli
dotnet build /t:xcsync-sync
    /p:xcSyncProjectFile=<PROJECT>
    /p:xcSyncXcodeFolder=<TARGET_XCODE_DIRECTORY>
    /p:xcSyncTargetFrameworkMoniker=<FRAMEWORK>
    /p:xcSyncVerbosity=<LEVEL>
```

### Arguments

- **`/p:xcSyncProjectFile=<PROJECT>`**
  The project file to build. Supported project types are .NET MAUI projects or any .NET project that targets a supported platform (iOS, tvOS, macOS, MacCatalyst).

### Options

> The following options allow you to change the default behavior of the tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following options allow you to change the default behavior of the tool:
```

- **`/p:xcSyncTargetFrameworkMoniker=<FRAMEWORK>`**
  Invoke the tool for a specific framework. The framework must be defined in the project file. Examples: `net9.0-ios`, `net9.0-maccatalyst`. **Required** if the .NET project supports multiple target frameworks (for example, a standard MAUI project). If a single platform project, the default value will be the single target framework specified in the project file.
- **`/p:xcSyncXcodeFolder=<TARGET_XCODE_DIRECTORY>`**
  Directory in which to place the generated Xcode project. Default path is `./obj/xcode`
- **`/p:xcSyncVerbosity=<LEVEL>`**
  Sets verbosity level of the command. Allowed values are `Detailed`, `Diagnostic`, `Minimal`, `Normal`, `Quiet`. Default value is `Normal`.

### Examples

> - Generate and open a Xcode project for .NET MAUI project that uses the project file in the current directory that supports the `net9.0-ios` [TFM](/dotnet/standard/frameworks)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Generate and open a Xcode project for .NET MAUI project that uses the project file in the current directory that supports the `net9.0-ios` [TFM](/dotnet/standard/frameworks):
```

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet build /t:xcsync-generate /p:xcSyncTargetFrameworkMoniker=net9.0-ios
    ```

> - Generate and open a Xcode project for a .NET MAUI project that supports the `net9.0-ios` [TFM](/dotnet/standard/frameworks)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Generate and open a Xcode project for a .NET MAUI project that supports the `net9.0-ios` [TFM](/dotnet/standard/frameworks):
```

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet build /t:xcsync-generate /p:xcSyncProjectFile=path/to/maui.csproj /p:xcSyncTargetFrameworkMoniker=net9.0-ios
  ```

> - Sync changes from a generated Xcode project in the default location (./obj/xcode) back to a .NET MAUI project that supports the `net9.0-ios` [TFM](/dotnet/standard/frameworks)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sync changes from a generated Xcode project in the default location (*./obj/Xcode*) back to a .NET MAUI project that supports the `net9.0-ios` [TFM](/dotnet/standard/frameworks):
```

---
title: Xcode Sync
description: Xcsync is designed to provide .NET developers with improved support for editing Apple specific files
author: haritha-mohan, mcumming
ms.author: harithamohan, mcumming
ms.date: 08/05/2024
monikerRange: ">=net-maui-9.0"
---
# Xcode Sync (Xcsync)

Xcode Sync (Xcsync) is a tool that enables developers to leverage Xcode for managing Apple specific files with .NET projects. The tool generates a temporary Xcode project from a .NET project and synchronizes changes to the Xcode files back to the .NET project.

Supported file types include:

- Asset Catalog
- Plist
- Storyboard
- Xib

> The tool has 2 commands: generate and sync. Use generate for tracking your changes from your .NET to Xcode and sync for tracking your changes from Xcode to .NET.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The tool has 2 commands: generate and sync. Use generate to create an Xcode project from a .NET project and sync to bring changes in the Xcode project back to the .NET project.
```

> The tool has 2 commands: generate and sync. Use generate for tracking your changes from your .NET to Xcode and sync for tracking your changes from Xcode to .NET.

Reviewer 2: Make the commands stand out, otherwise the sentences look really odd:

```suggestion
The tool has 2 commands: `generate` and `sync`. Use `generate` for tracking your changes from your .NET to Xcode and `sync` for tracking your changes from Xcode to .NET.
```

## Synopsis

### xcsync-generate

```dotnetcli
dotnet build /t:xcsync-generate /p:<XCSYNC_PROPERTY>=<Value>

Parameters:
  <XCSYNC_PROPERTY> ::= xcSyncProjectFile | xcSyncXcodeFolder | xcSyncTargetFrameworkMoniker | xcSyncVerbosity

  xcSyncProjectFile ::=<PROJECT>
  xcSyncXcodeFolder ::=<TARGET_XCODE_DIRECTORY>
  xcSyncTargetFrameworkMoniker ::=<FRAMEWORK>
  xcSyncVerbosity ::=<LEVEL>
```

### xcsync-sync

```dotnetcli
dotnet build /t:xcsync-sync /p:<XCSYNC_PROPERTY>=<Value>

Parameters:
  <XCSYNC_PROPERTY> ::= xcSyncProjectFile | xcSyncXcodeFolder | xcSyncTargetFrameworkMoniker | xcSyncVerbosity

  xcSyncProjectFile ::=<PROJECT>
  xcSyncXcodeFolder ::=<TARGET_XCODE_DIRECTORY>
  xcSyncTargetFrameworkMoniker ::=<FRAMEWORK>
  xcSyncVerbosity ::=<LEVEL>
```

### Arguments

- **`/p:xcSyncProjectFile=<PROJECT>`**

>   The project file to build. This is **required**. Allowed values are MAUI project files or a project file that targets a supported platform (iOS, tvOS, macOS, MacCatalyst).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The project file to build. Supported project types are .NET MAUI projects or any .NET project that targets a supported platform (iOS, tvOS, macOS, MacCatalyst).
```

This argument is not required, it will be picked up from the context of the command

Author: thanks! forgot to update after our discussion

### Options

> These are optional; if not specified, the default value will be used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following options allow you to change the default behavior of the tool.
```
Not all Options are always optional

---
title: Xcode sync

> description: Learn how to use Xcsync, to provide .NET developers with improved support for editing Apple specific files.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to use Xcode sync (xcsync), to provide .NET developers with improved support for editing Apple specific files.
```
